JUDY WOODRUFF: Professional
baseball has reached
the midpoint of its
season, and it's turning
out to be a most
compelling year.
Many of the game's best players
are in Miami for the next couple
of nights for the midsummer
classic, the All-Star Game.
Things kick off tonight
with the Home Run Derby.
Jeffrey Brown takes
it from there.
JEFFREY BROWN: Another
at bat, another home run.
Balls are flying out of the
park this year at a record pace.
And adding to the excitement,
two of the biggest sluggers are
rookies Aaron Judge of the New
York Yankees and Cody Bellinger
of the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Tom Verducci is an MLB Network
analyst, a senior writer for
"Sports Illustrated," and,
tomorrow, he will be the
FOX MLB reporter for the
All-Star Game in Miami.
He joins us from Marlins
Park, the site of the
all-star festivities.
Tom, welcome to you.
So, first of all, all those
home runs, I have seen different
theories, the changes to the
balls, changes to the swing.
What's going on?
TOM VERDUCCI, "Sports
Illustrated": Well, a
little bit of everything.
It's like baking a cake.
It's not just one ingredient.
There are many ingredients.
If you talk to the pitchers,
they will definitely talk about
the difference in the baseball,
that the baseball actually is
wound tighter and the seams
on the baseball are smaller.
So if you have lower
seams, you have less drag.
And you have less drag, of
course, that means more carry,
and more fly balls are carrying
out of ballparks.
So, you did bring up something.
Hitters now know that to
make money in the baseball,
you have to do damage.
You have to hit the
ball in the air.
So, this generation hitters
is all about launching
the ball in the air and
not necessarily hitting
it on the ground
for batting average.
It more about in
the air or slugging.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, speaking of
this generation, we have these
two new rookie stars, and they
happen to be in very
large markets, right,
New York and L.A.
So, what kind of impact
are they having this year?
TOM VERDUCCI: Yes, it's
the perfect storm for
baseball, because it
truly is the intersection
of the two dominant
trends in baseball, number
one, the home runs we
talked about, and, number
two, the influx of
young stars in the game.
Now, baseball, traditionally,
there has been a
long learning curve.
Even when they get to
the Major Leagues, after
their apprenticeship
in the minor leagues,
it takes a while for a
player to establish himself.
What we're seeing now in
recent years -- and Judge and
Bellinger are great examples of
this -- hitters becoming impact
players almost immediately as
soon as they get to the big
leagues.
Now, I think this has
something to do with
our society in general.
We're now specializing
at early ages.
So, these hitters now
are specializing on the
art of hitting, rather
than playing multiple
sports, locking in on
their specific skills.
So, Judge and Bellinger
have hit the ground running.
And one more thing.
Bellinger, in A Ball a couple
of years ago, specifically
changed his swing to hit more
balls in the air.
In other words, he's
adapted to this revolution
of fly ball hitters.
And it's paying off for him.
JEFFREY BROWN: We have
this sort of overperforming
team in the Houston Astros
and the underperforming,
the reigning
champions, the Cubs.
But do want to ask you in
our last minute about this
continuing problem, the length
of the games, something I notice
and probably a lot of the fans.
Why is it so hard
to change that?
TOM VERDUCCI: Sure.
Well, first of all, it's not
so much about length of game
as it is about the pace of
the action, how quickly
or not, as it is, is
the ball put in play.
It's all the time
between pitches.
So, I think it is a
priority for Major League
Baseball going forward.
The game is strong right
now economically, but
I think baseball is
worried about a younger
generation of fans who get
turned off by the amount
of downtime in the game.
In soccer, football, basketball,
the ball is generally
in motion quite often.
In baseball, it's going
in the opposite direction.
So, baseball now is talking
about some remedies,
talking about, now,
including perhaps a pitch
clock, where a pitcher now would
be literally under a clock to
deliver his next pitch, say,
within 20 seconds.
They have tried that
in the minor leagues.
It definitely has worked
in transportation of moving
the game at a better place.
Now baseball needs the
Players Association to agree
to that kind of change.
As they say,
negotiations are ongoing.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
Tom Verducci, enjoy tomorrow
night's game, and thanks so much
for joining us.
TOM VERDUCCI: Thank you.